I'm recording hello welcome to the
package managers weekly sing for our
special interest cream for May the 7th
2019 I am making green I hope you're
hosting a game of what we did last week
what we're doing this week and what
we've gotten I go first so last week I
was trying to work on some like the
conversion of the UNIX FS importer for
Jerris ipfs from callbacks to async
await that's still ongoing because yeah
it's mostly done the last kind of piece
of the puzzle is the trickled dug
important and I think there are some
incompatibilities between Jayce and
goats and trying to bring the dress
implementation in line would go but it's
men trying to run on the intro tests
which means then integrating everything
with J so I appear first as well which
would have been the next step of what I
was doing which I'm having to do at this
step because the the algorithms are
different which is a bit weird yet so
that's going to be me
also tomorrow I'm going to be working on
the the Lib p2p workshop with Jacob IP
of s camp yeah and I am out on Thursday
for some personal business which you
know I remember talk about here but if
you're interested hear me off probably
yep that is me that's my update Andrew
you are next good day
so last week I spent quite a lot of time
researching different elements and
challenges involved in decentralized
publishing this is inspired by a call we
had that I'm not sure I can talk about
publicly yet but it should be talked
about about about in
weeks I think once the once the public
announcement is made but basically in
kind of went fairly deep into what would
be involved in making decentralized
publishing for a given package manager'
possible and some of the challenges and
some of the different kind of opening
that the many doors of what different
routes you could take what things you
might get as benefits and comparing and
contrasting that with more centralized
existing systems I don't really have a
conclusion yet which was requested
almost as soon as had published it so
definitely gonna spend some time this
week kind of polishing that off I might
move it out from being a github issue
and put it into a actual file in the
repository for like continued
improvements and poor request sick etc
rather than it just being an issue but
it feels like that was a good place for
it initially to get see if there was any
discussion if anyone wants to talk
through any of that then I'm I'm free a
week to to kind of drill down on any
bits that I am being clear I also did a
little visualization of Eric's cladistic
decision tree of ipfs support let me
just try and share my screen real quick
how does see if this works
there we go so this is literally kind of
a copy-paste of the textual content is
linked in the the notes for this call of
Eric's issue that he wrote up but trying
to visualize it as a decision tree
rather than as a nested pile of
unordered lists definitely a lot of
scope here to to expand and there's more
decisions that can be kind of put in or
multiple answers rather than just yes
knows and then to kind of dangly options
right at the bottom have a lot more
different pathways to go from especially
based on the decentralized publishing
research that I did last week I also
wanted to try and tease out some of the
decision paths at different categories
of package managers would take so a file
system based Linux package manager would
take a fairly different path through
than a say an NPM kind of centralized
database back to registry and to try and
kind of highlight where the happy paths
are for so that people can almost have a
rather than a choose-your-own-adventure
it's almost like well what are the
attributes of your package manager this
naturally leads you down this path here
are the bits that you're missing and
then that kind of leads to some
interesting points of discussion for
people to go investigating but that it's
also open for anyone else to edit I will
put a link to the mural in there if
anyone wants to dive in and add stuff
and was there anything else also just
wanted to mention that the a new version
of Lapham shipped like 12 hours ago
which does contain my poor request to
add in the ability to specify a
particular version when you install it
but there basically it's it's really
only interesting because that means
they're now kind of removed all of the
initial things that were in the way of
them starting to look at ipfs
integration so now they're diving into
that more I followed up with someone I
forget who it was this morning and I
imagine there's going to be a lot of
back and forwards on that fairly soon
which is good
and then next week this week even sorry
the other thing that I wanted to do was
to write up some ideas I was thinking
about over the weekend on localized
package data but I won't go into that
now if we have time at the end of the
call there now I'll kind of expand on it
a little bit um yes I think that's
that's it Jessica
sorry you probably hear a coffee grinder
I apologize in advance you see so I so I
went through and died round out the
audience segments and they're pre ipfs
enhanced pain points and their existing
communications channels so this is all
in a neural dock which I can share my
screen if I can find my screen on a
single screen to share forgive me I was
supposed to be somewhere other than
stranded by the side of the road right
now so so I did walk through this this
reflects on this was Andrews original
pain points document which I've not had
and segmented out by topical areas by
the three main audience segments of
package consumers package publishers and
then package manager maintained errs as
you can see the topical grouping leads
us to be more aware of some more there's
some areas of more importance than
others or more common relevance than
others and then also took a bash granted
this is pretty high-level at existing
communications channels that each of
these audience statements might be using
separated these out into ones that are
owned by that user segment itself
obviously the package users themselves
or the package consumers don't have
their own channels for discourse but
then also those who are either making
packages or a package manager maintain
had channels that they run themselves so
really just using this as an initial
starting point hopefully for some
further discussion
you know further you know in a future
world I'd like to see some of these pain
points here separated out into things
that we could actually maybe use for
like priority waiting for even
generating user stories as time goes on
so like I said this is pretty this is
pretty high level and and I greatly
appreciate any thoughts any of you all
might have on next steps for this you
know I've got some ideas but I'd like to
to get everybody else's thoughts as well
and you have a chance to look it over
over the next couple of days if you get
a chance so that link is in the document
today's notes
additionally wrote so going on that um
thank you so much Andrew for turning the
cladistic tree into a flow chart because
that was sort of next on my list of
things to start visualizing I might want
to take a look through the tree and sort
of expand on that a little bit more as
you've noted also you'd also had and
you'd have to which I misquoted in the
notes but it might be interesting to
pull that apart segmenting by those
top-level segments of identity discovery
into willing to try to dig that into
something that might turn that might
suggest a future segmentation into
defining individual problems that we
could go a little bit further toward
separating out into yeah the discrete
parts it definitely the it's write down
almost like the kind of setting the
scene it feels like most package
managers currently lump all three of
those things together and for there's
definitely some interesting use cases
for saying like well what if you already
just did one of these parts like way
what does that open I'm kind of enable
you to do or like does it need to be
linked to sometimes yeah yeah and I
think it was particularly keying and on
your on your comments that we were
probably going to need to do a little
bit more heavy duty solving for the
discovery part of this
and that at least is something that I am
not lacking the technical expertise that
you see okay so that's something I'd
like to dig in a little bit further but
I think sort of my next steps is to go
through them you know those documents
those issues and try to at least get
something into I don't know a more a
more segmented format and then we can
talk about maybe how we want to
represent that maybe even within the
package managers repo and maybe maybe we
actually want to sort of space things
out by topic I'm not sure if that's too
too segmented at this point in time feel
free to rip its pieces
anyway it's cool awesome so so I'll keep
thinking about that if I if I ever get
the car fixed I will be in Vermont the
rest of the afternoon helping some
people defend their theses but if you
need anything in his super hurry on you
know slack on my phone or whatever
Thanks
you
there anyone else for anything not in
the dock
you
big monster any other business
so I mentioned briefly kind of thinking
about based off this kind of idea of
what happens if you if you can put a
package manager in to break it into the
pieces that is kind of composed of
generally most package managers end up
as as combining them all together often
because they the database that they use
gives them almost all of those different
functions go in so it's quite easy to
then go like oh well we can have our
search and our resolution algorithm
and any kind of like mutable lists of
updated things all from the same data
source then that's really easy but if
you try and break those indexes apart
and put them on ipfs then like well I
don't really need an index of 600,000
packages if I only got 2000 packages in
my in my project which then kind of led
me down a path of the search and the
actual kind of list of all available
things doesn't necessarily have to be
connected with for with the dependency
resolution algorithm for a given project
which kind of got me thinking about if
you were to have
for any project or even any person they
kind of have small localized groups of
or chunks of dependency data that are
relevant to them metadata and actual
package contents but that data isn't
humongous it's probably like under a
gigabyte for even for the biggest kind
of packages or sorry not packages
software projects you can imagine the
kind of thing that would end up wrapped
up inside of a docker image with once
it's all kind of been installed and
compiled the that kind of size of data
becomes interesting because then ipfs
actually like can fairly easily move
around and comprehend small chunks of or
groups of data rather than trying to say
like oh you need to mirror the whole
registry that you could potentially even
say like rather than being completely
decentralized if you had centralized
services you could almost say like can
you import my package dependency tree
into the service that I want to start
using and it actually uploads the
package data metadata and like source
code into a particular service without
and if it's all done via IP FS you're
essentially making pointers to snapshots
of those like those pointers to the data
that's specific to a given project you
could actually make a certain amount of
portability rather than having to be
pinned down to like oh well for this to
work we're gonna need to mirror a whole
registry or at least to be able to proxy
back through to the original registry
what would what would it look like if
you were to say like rather than just a
lock file that contains
a manifest that points to some registry
URLs could you have kind of either a
file or some kind of archive that was
the full pile of everything that you
would need for a project without it
being like installed into a docker image
not exactly sure what that looks like
but that feels like an interesting area
to go when specifically related to ipfs
because many of those chunks of data
inside that that like archive for a
given project would be shared between
projects especially for all the kind of
popular bits the dependencies so you
potentially have kind of similar users
end up sharing a lot of their data and
especially for people that are using the
same kind of projects without needing to
have to rely on having the full list and
that still means you need a different
service somewhere else to do search and
updates to be able to find new packages
or to hear about updates to existing
packages that you care about but it kind
of it means that you can slightly
separate their concerns a little bit
rather than having to kind of solve all
three discovery problems at the same
time
you
some of that up and try and connect it
with some of the lists of problems and
that Jessica's been pulling apart as
well because that feels like a good
place to to go back and have a bit more
of a think about
oh god gem I'm just you were talking
about um I think it would be actually
started interesting to have a service
that sort of tracked like they got as a
coder like as you're working on code
what your live said the dependencies are
on the code that you're working on over
time like like last week these are the
dependencies I was using this week the
you know what was i working on six
months ago and like if you could sort of
like track the dependencies that were
sort of hot at that time and that
actually has some interesting
capabilities to if you were actually
sort of willing to share that you know
maybe in the private setting there's
some other people because you could
actually do sort of like tf-idf sort of
natural language processing style
matching and like actually say hey you
know you're working on this thing six
months ago somebody just started working
on you know similar set of dependencies
maybe you should go talk to them it's
sort of novel use for this data but
yeah having that that kind of maybe
opt-in to sharing a certain amount of
that data a high-level
would allow you to connect with other
people especially if you're saying like
oh well I'm working on open source
project so I came up for for sharing
this more than say a closed source
private project yeah like it might even
work like with even within like you know
like protocol apps like what we're doing
cuz people shift around from different
projects and you're working on a bit of
code that has a lot of similar
dependencies is something that somebody
else worked on previously but you you
just didn't even know that they were
working on that and then II think it's
you know it could be like hey you should
probably know that this person was
working on something it like you if they
wouldn't know that the actual code is
the same but would know that you're
working with the same set of libraries
Jessica
so this is a little bit more of an
administrative four or get hygiene
question but going on from your document
and and having me sort of I really like
the high level categorizations of
dependencies discovering and tooling um
in terms of like segmenting those out
into problem statements or so forth that
we want to discuss in more detail and
then maybe tying that to something new a
base documentation would be the best way
for us to go forward in our existing
package manager sig repo any suggestions
on or any ways that people have found to
be helpful in the past
yeah repos up is not particularly good
for that kind of collaboration right now
because we're doing a whole bunch of
things and issues and sort of let them
shake out but I think we're at that
point where things are maybe starting to
shake out into more discrete categories
so I guess I was just wondering before
we went forward with that if you had me
anyway my initial thought would be to
then to start to build up probably in
the github repo but it would also work
in Google Docs to start building up
maybe like three or four files that
break these things down into chunks and
actually then four we have issues for
like there's a chunk missing here
let's go like either someone open up or
a quest think and like have
collaboration on it or just dive in and
start editing it doesn't feel like we
need a lot of process around it we just
need kind of to end up with something
that's a little easier to collaborate
rather than editing the content of
issues right right exactly
just getting getting the issues to
cluster you know maybe maybe we could
think about like how how we might use
like I'll have a think is well bigger
yes we could could return on the wiki
for the package managers repo job wiki's
are a bit they're lacking in a lot of
features but it might be
like no presents an easy issue I have
never used to get have wiki but if it
also makes it really easy for folks who
come and in index in on our package
managers repo as a package manager
maintainer Zoar users or people who are
generally excited and they can be like
well I can tell you about the thing
that's happening in maven because I
happen to be in the maven community and
here's here's my dollop of knowledge
that I'm gonna add really easily like
that'd be real cool I think that would
help us scale out our contributors a
little more so maybe I might want to do
with that is make sure we're doing some
kind of a backup I know it is supposed
to be get based but github has not touch
the wiki in like five years and they
have no spam protection they have no
like ability to lock it down
particularly well set or to revert
changes you literally have to like clone
the wiki repo locally edit it push it
back up again to get the history
properly so but right now no one really
notices the wiki exists so I'm not too
concerned about it alright so I will I
will dig into maybe better ways to start
organizing our our larger overarching
problems I know there's time to get
separated out into larger overarching
problem
also one other little thing I have a
call with Jim tomorrow
I think is it to discuss some ideas for
the the mini projects work that he's
doing and potentially like bouncing some
ideas around related to package Mandarin
if you want to talk more about that Jim
yeah if anybody's got some ideas
she should it at us or there's an
integration many projects I'll just get
the URL for it and feel free to just
drop ideas and things into this into the
issues there and you know they don't
have to be a fully thought-out it just
be really half-baked ideas just put them
in there and some of them we might
elaborate into being like a one-week
project and even if I don't end up doing
them it's good to have them there and
then other people can sort of pull them
off and work on them
you
cool I think we're out of time so I will
stop recording this now and we can move
on to the rest of our day smashing
evenings thank you very much for
attending the packet manager special
interest group we could catch up for a
sense of may 20 19 see you all on the
Internet
[Music]